to the Middle East next where Israel's
prime minister has told his cabinet that
the country is already in a cot
multi-front war with Iran amid Rising
tensions the G7 group of Nations has
joined calls for restraint in the region
following Wednesday's assassination of
Hamas political Chief isma hania in
Teran the US says Israel has its
Ironclad support in the face of any
retaliatory attack from Iran let's get
more now from Sara bazuband she's an
analyst focused on Iran at the German
Institute for Global and area studies
she joins me now from Hamburg Sarah good
morning diplomatic efforts are
continuing we saw Jordan's foreign
minister Aman safadi making a r visit to
Iran can diplomacy like that prevent a
major Iranian retaliatory
strike good morning and thank you for
the invitation um we need to in order to
answer this question we need to keep in
mind the mindset behind the negotiation
strategy from the Iranian side um they
Philosophy from of the negotiations in
Iran side in every aspect of their um
encounters with um outside world
especially with the west through nuclear
negotiations through uh hostage taking
negotiations and now through the crisis
negotiations with Israel is to show a
major big gesture create a big splash to
put the other side in a corner of
especially a media and psychological war
and then to gain uh so-called brownie
points from them to to be able to use
that as a negotiation chip as a
bargaining chip um now it of course they
will have their demands we don't know
what their demands are um there are
negotiations ongoing at the very senior
level as uh your report also mentioned
that uh Jordanian uh fire Minister after
nearly one decade is in Teran was in
tran for for having a very Frank and
very direct conversations with the
authorities in Iran um but would they
let that go at this stage I highly doubt
it uh un fortunately we are entangled in
this crisis that Tit for Tat will
continue it's every step it seems to
become bigger and more serious the US is
saying that Israel has its quote
Ironclad support how well is Israel
actually prepared for a possible Iranian
strike from a military point of
view well Israel has maintained a a
so-called um quantitative military Edge
in the region uh with the support of the
United States Israel has had
um much more advanced uh military um
equipment to defend itself but we also
need to keep in mind that the size of
the country the size of the military um
between the two countries is completely
asymmetric um Iranians have trained
equipped financed several groups across
the region that um are trying and all of
them are very much in line with Tan's
strategy in hurting and damaging Israel
so it's not exactly the most powerful
situation for Israel but of course
Israel would have the support of the
West and we've and especially the United
States and we've seen that as John kby
mentioned in his remarks that you uh
just showed um that in April um that we
we were in that situation that the
Western Coalition had to come and and
support Israel and that will happen so
Israel would not be alone in this but it
will not be an easy um challenge um it
it would not be an easy crisis for
Israel to deal with I would imagine
neither would it be for WR to be honest
with Israel's prime minister meanwhile
is saying that Israel is already in a
quot multi-front war I mean is that
really the case given that full-blown
war with Hezbollah has not yet broken
out and who are these comments really
for
then um yes Israel and Iran have been in
in a multif front War uh there was a day
in our calendar we should not forget
that was 7th of October a lot has
happened on that day and the reason that
we are in this situation is is that
there that incident that event uh
Israeli people were living their lives
and and suddenly a group of terrorists
attacked them and beheaded their
children and raped their women uh that
that is what triggered it and that was a
major event and Israel could not just
sit back and watch and move on that we
all understand there is also like I said
the proxy war proxies that are financed
trained and equipped by Iranians uh
there is also the Cyber war that if you
uh for example look at the regular
reports that Microsoft produces there is
a huge investment from Iranian side on
cyber attacks on influence operation on
psychological operation uh to affect and
influence Israeli society and a a you
know Global Community as as a whole um
there is definitely a multif front War
um Iran and Israel have been entangled
in this rivalry it but it was always an
indirect uh rivalry but we it seems that
we are getting closer to more direct
rivalry and I just want to add one
sentence we keep hearing this um on
media uh that Israel is trying to drag
the United States into this war but I I
don't think that is the case I think
that's a shortsighted conclusion because
again going back to 7th of October and
what has happened that was imposed on
Israel and and you know this doesn't
this doesn't mean that justifying uh you
know atrocities in Gaza and so on and so
forth should be accepted but we need to
keep in mind that Israel was attacked
and Israel is trying to regain its
deterrence uh in the region we'll leave
it there for the moment thanks so much
for joining us today Sarah bandi from
the German Institute for Global and area
studies thanks so much